So far we've talked about you state, which
I'm gonna say is like the one that you use
the most, it's the hook that you're
gonna use the most inside of react.
The second one that you'll use very
frequently is element called the Pet.
Everything after those two,
it's a long tail, right?
You state and use effect 99% of
what you need react hooks for
everything else is a pretty
specialized use case.
If you do wanna dig into all of them,
I teach all of the hooks
in intermediate react and
you can actually go through one by one and
learn what each one of them does, okay.
So let's head back to search paras for
a second.
I am gonna do use state and
then we are gonna create,
import another hook called
use effect from react.
Remember, when I was talking about
don't do side effects inside of react,
use effect is like a little.
A function that you can like
wrapped around something to say
like okay here's we're gonna do things
that are gonna call out to API's.
Or do other kinds of stateful things are
gonna live outside of your component and
then we're also gonna
import pet from./pet here.
Okay, we're gonna have another
piece of use state here.
Const [pets, setpets] = use state and
it's going to be
an empty array So
we're gonna call out to our API.
We have like a little developer
API that you can just hammer.
It's just gonna return to you fake dummy
data of pets that you could adopt, right?
And here underneath all of this,
we're gonna do a use effect.
And when I give that a function In
this is a function that's going to be
called outside of the render, right.
So basically you're registering a function
to be called later as essentially what
it's doing.
Kind of like a an event listener, right?
Where you're not executing
that function right away.
You're waiting for something to happen
first, are you waiting for a click or
key up or something like that?
That's what an effect is basically saying
like to finish my rendering function.
Then call my effect which will, go fetch
some data from an API and then come back.
Okay, and we're gonna make
a function here called request pets.
That's gonna go out to an API and
then that's is going to call set pets.
Now, how often do we want
to call request pets?
Well, for now,
we just wanna call it the beginning.
Eventually we're gonna have it
whenever they submit the form, right?
But for now, we just want it to
whenever a page loads, just take,
whatever my data is.
I make a request of the API
to go get all the pets.
So you can give it this array
of dependency variables.
So here I can put here, call this effect
again whenever blah happens, right?
So if I put, for example breed, this would
call it whenever breed changes, right?
So that's what this array is.
It's an array of dependent variables.
In our particular case we just never
wanna call it once at the beginning so
we wanna call it exactly
once after the first render.
So if you just give it
an empty array that's what
it's gonna do that makes sense.
If you give it nothing it's going
to say hey if anything changes.
If location animal breed pet if any
of that changes then call it again
that would be way too much right we'd
be having our API unnecessarily.
So for now just give her an empty array,
they're gonna write
a function called async
function request pets here we're
gonna call an API so const.
Res as in response equals await, fetch.
And then we're going to
give it this HTTP colon.
So I do this over HTTP and not HTTPs for
the sake of this class that
you don't have to worry about.
Cores are or not cores but necessarily but
like SSL errors this is just
simpler if you do it over HTTP.
Pets-v2.dev-apis.com this
is a set of serverless
functions that Frontend Masters and
I maintain.
That's just like a dev API for
you all to play around with.
We're gonna call the pets API,
and we're gonna say animal =.
Animal, If you're not familiar
with this dollar sign curly brace,
this is just a,
it's called a template function.
It came with like ES6.
It's pretty old.
Now it's like from 2015, but
make sure these are back ticks
as in next to the one on your keyboard or
that's this won't work, okay?
So animal equals animal and
location equals location.
And once we have your
breed equals breed so
this is gonna call to the pets API.
It's gonna go grab this and
it's gonna bring it back And then here,
you're gonna say const
Json = awaitres.Json.
This is just how fetch works.
It's like a browser API,
if you're not familiar with it.
And then await is basically saying
this is gonna take some time to do,
so wait for this to happen first.
And then do this fetch gives you back
a promise right in a way just says wait
till this promise resolves.
What you do this instead
of like callback hell or
doing promise.then this is just
a simpler way of doing that.
Okay, and then after that you're
gonna say set pets Json.pets.
And then now we're all happy with going
out to the API and getting that and
this will get called once after the the
app is rendered the first time okay.
And then here underneath the form so
wherever the form ends here.
We're just gonna make a quick pets.map.
Pet and
then this is gonna just be pet name
equals name.pet, or pet.name rather.
Pet.name animal equals pet.animal,
breed equals pet.breed and then key.
Do you remember that I had you and
I did it up?
Here's one I didn't explain it but
like key is basically saying like, hey,
I have multiple of these
pet components in a row.
What happens if pet A and
pet B switch spots.
If you don't give react to
key it can't tell that so
it just destroys both of them and then re
renders them totally from the ground up.
If those are like big complicated trees,
right like they're huge components
that have lots of interactivity and
stuff like that.
That can be pretty costly, right?
So a key doesn't say like I'll
check to see if, this is Q1.
This is Q2, and if I can see that now,
it's 21 is like, cool.
They just swapped, and you just swap
some for you, that makes sense.
Okay, that's what he's for.
So the key to key, if you will,
which maybe you won't,
is it has to be unique per pet, right?
So, for example, pet.name, there's
a lot of Fidos in the world, right?
So that's not a unique
identifier per pet but
the pet.id which is a like a database key.
Or something like that is people
wanna put indexes here sometime
that's generally not a good
idea why is that because.
If two things swap,
their indexes won't change, right.
So it'll think that nothing changed,
which is a big problem
because something did change.
It's better to be just like
not have a key in that case.
>> Had ideas from the API.
>> Correct?
Yeah, the pet ideas from the API.
So as the creator of this API I
guarantee you it is unique or
famous last words I don't know
it's your problem not mine.
[LAUGH].
So you should have an ES lint
error here here right there.
Use effect has a missing
dependency request pets.
So this is where I get annoyed
at this particular rule.
And it's a warning to be fair
it's actually an error it
used to be an error and
I was even more upset by that.
It does its best to see like
hey you're referring to
request pets which is a thing
that is defined locally.
So it assumes that comes from a hook
now if this was a hook and then yeah,
like if I was saying console.log breed.
Then I would wanna put breed here,
but request pets is just a function.
So you have two choices here.
You can put request pets here and
this will satisfy it.
That's new.
I'd actually didn't know that.
So now it's certainly yellow.
She's like this.
You're a function you should be moved
inside of this So
I guess you could do it this way.
And then you have to put, okay?
So this is like a cascading thing.
Now we're referring to animal location and
breed in here,
which we actually don't want it
to be dependent on that, right?
Because we want people to be able to
type without really requesting the API.
So, in this particular case,
what I'm gonna tell you then
is to just ignore it or
you can say.//eslint-disable-line.
And you can just do
that totally wholesale.
This led to prevent it from giving you any
error which I maybe advise against cuz you
might have different errors on here.
So you can actually specify
react-hooks/exhaustive-depths.
Now, it's specifically only
going to ignore that one error.
I show you this specifically cuz I
end up doing this a decent amount.
Because this is a little bit more like,
frequently you wanna be aware of this,
but not always, right?
As opposed to, never put use state or
any hook inside of an if statement.
That's a hard error you should always
change that this one if you know what
you're doing then go ahead and
ignore the warning.
And again it's a warning so you actually
never have to fix it just yellow squiggly
lines really bothering me in my code.
When a guy cannot even write, so
that's why I do that, okay.
I have a note in my code.
Because we did async here.
This is where you might see an error
about the regenerator runtime.
If you do that your
browser's list is incorrect.
So whatever you have here sorry,
I didn't even say that.
So that's a problem.
So I probably would get this.
Let's even see if I can
get it cuz then I'd be
able to show you what
the error would look like.
Looks like it's not doing it.
It's too bad.
I wanna show you what the error
looks like.
Anyway, not a problem.
If you're seeing an error about
regenerate a runtime here.
That means you need to delete your cache,
delete your disk folder.
So delete this here, delete your disk
folder, maybe delete your node modules.
Make sure that your
browser's list which I went
over before is correct which is should be
like last to Chrome versions like this,
And then you should fix that again.
But hopefully most of
you aren't seeing that.
Now you should be seeing something
coming back from your API.
See see Luna Bunnashabhain Olive
pseudo beam,
all of these here,
that should be coming back from the API.
And if you look at your network
tab here in your browser,
you can see here this pets API.
So you can see it's coming
back to android, okay.
And you can see the response here
it comes back with ten pets.
They look like that.
They even have little images which
we'll put up here in a little bit.
So closures,
let's talk a second about closures.
Notice that we're using request pets
inside of search prints, why is that?
It's wasteful because we're creating
a new function every single time.
That we re render not ideal.
Not a big deal.
The reason is that, we're using closure.
So now that anytime, this animal refers
to precisely this animal all right.
That's helpful because so that we can
actually just use closures like functions
that can point to the internal
state of something.
To reference these exactly so that's
helpful, that's why it's inside of it.
You might ask why didn't we just put this
body inside of here this request pets
inside of us effect one.
I wanted to make an async function
this function here cannot be async.
It's gonna tell you why I think In fact
callbacks are synchronous to prevent
risky conditions, that's no good for
them for warning you about that.
So you just make a function and
then just have a call and
that's totally fine okay, Yeah and
then at that point, we're just calling an
API, getting something back from the API,
setting a use state hook, and
then we're rendering it down here.
So the first time this renders,
and this is a positive thing,
it's gonna render once with
nothing in there, right?
The very first render,
this is gonna be an empty array.
So if you notice it'll render
once very quickly it then renders
a second time with the pets cuz
the API is fairly fast right.
But imagine this was a very slow API yeah
suffice to say that it renders
once nothing in there call it.
Then schedules here at this use effect to
call the API after the first render he
calls the API.
As soon as this resolves you can
see down here called sets pets as
soon as you sit call set pets.
This is also signifying to react hey
a thing changed reacts a thing changed and
then it goes back and re renders again but
now this is not an empty array.
This is an array full of
pets back from the API,
which is where we get all of our pets.
Does that cycle make sense?
This is preferable because if we
just wait for the API to come back,
the user has to wait to see anything
until that first call comes back which,
we're on fast internet.
Or many of you I imagine are probably on
pretty fast internet that this happens
really quickly.
But imagine like you're in you know
2G In like rural North Dakota or
something like that right that first API
call could be really painful to wait for.
So the person is stuck there staring
at nothing as opposed it's nice to
look at something.
There's a lot of research that shows that
people can't even make a decision that
fast, right?
When they look at websites,
so they look at something and
then if you're requesting
things in the background.
They're still processing
the layout of your UI,
then they'll start seeing
the actual data come back right.
So we're kind of getting into like human
psychology of user interfaces here but
this is better even if it requires
more processing and code to accomplish